
Section 21: Amazon EKS Networing
I should know what is a container, what is microservices, and what is kubernetes.
kubernetes - orchestration
Well complicated, so many tools. And all the buzz words too. Artifact. Dockerfile. 
ECS ECR EKS
How much detail do I need to know for the network exam?
kubectl 
self-managed, managed nodes group, 3rd option is Fargate - no machines to manage
probably more relevant: Amazon EKS Cluster Networking
It's recommemended to have separate subnets for each EKS ENI. EKS needs at least 6 IPs in each subnet (16 recommended). What? Is this a network interface?
- does it mean the CIDR? Or just used by EKS?
EKS cluster endpoint access - Public (default)
- Is this how it works at DS? Surely not.
- more likely public and private.
- ah can have entirely private - vpn, direct connects, workspace
most important: EKS pod networking 
Container Network Interface (CNI)
Pods, worker nodes, containers
Amazon EKS officially supports the Amazon VPC CNI plugin for Kubernetes
Also Calico, Cilium, WeaveNet, Antrea.
Maximum pods per node: m5.large maximum network interfaces=3 private ipv4 addresses per interface=10 (same ipv6)
                       m5.xlarge                           4                                      15
                       m5.2xlarge                          4                                      15
                       m5.4xlarge                          8                                      30
max pods 3x(10-1)+2=29
Increased available IP addresses for Pods - only on nitro - prefix delegation - entire cidr for Ec2 ENI
- /28 for ipv4 /80 for ipv6 280 trillion
- many. many pods on same EC2. 434. but recommended 110

My review:
Fargate ECS EKS. ECR is separate.
ECS: and EKS are container orchestration services.
Fargate: is a serverless compute engine that can be used as a launch type for both ECS tasks and EKS pods, 
abstracting away the underlying server infrastructure. This allows you to run containers without managing 
servers, simplifying operations and potentially optimizing costs.
If not fargate then cluster runs on EC2s.

Security groups <- important in exam
Remember issues is SG is ENI and pods share ENI . Calico for example uses IPtables to have different security 
for each pod. Do i need to know calico for the exam? at least network policy.
Trunk and branch ENIs.
- I bet it's like trunking in networking. 802.1q baby. Directly attached to the pods. => security at the pod level.
(but not windows nodes) if IPv6 => only fargate. Supported by nitro. 

Controller
ServiceType=Loadbalancer <- This is our NLB
ServiceType=Ingress


Summary
- 



