
VPCs per region: 5 I knew that. Max 100s. Equally IGW.
subnet per VPC: 200
IPv4 CIDR blocks per VPC: 5 max 50
IPv6                    : 1 cannot be increased
200 Network ACLs per VPC, 20 rules per Network ACL
200 route tables per VPC and 50 routes per route table
2500 security groups per region. 60 rules per security group. 5 per interface.
A NAT gateway can support up to 55,000 simultaneous connections to each unique destination

802.3ad is lacp
802.1q  is vlans

placement groups
My transit gateway spans regions. But the VPC is within the regions, but may contain AZs.

charges in and out even within vpc

Enhanced networking
ENA supports speeds up to 100 Gbps
SR-IOV Single Root Input/Output Virtualization

Default VPC, IGW, and public subnets. Well fuck.

You can access a s3 bucket out of region. <- So I don't need a bucket in the region? Nice!
- OK, I guess there are unique, but still.

If the instance is stopped and started the same EIP address will persist

Which configuration options must be configured when setting up a Private VIF for Direct Connect?
- Virtual Private Gateway, VLAN, BGP ASN

Which components are required in order to create an AWS Managed Hardware VPN?
- Customer Gateway and Virtual Private Gateway

What is the maximum number of IP Prefixes that can be advertised into AWS Direct Connect?
- 100

-----

Remember too IGW vs NAT. NAT in public subnet. 
The NAT needs the IGW. That's why we have IGW in inspect. 

1
2
3
4
5
6

7 security and monitoring
max 5 security groups to an instance
applied to ENI
all outbound traffic by default
metadata 169.254.169.254
by default, ACLs allow traffic
200 Network ACLs per VPC, 20 rules per Network ACL
Each subnet can only be associated with a single Network ACL
New Network ACLs block all traffic by default <-
Associated with subnets
I've always been confused with security group as the source
- it just means the devices that sg is attached to
Limit 5 VGW per region. Attach to a VPC like a IGW.
Is VGW only for VPN? And Direct connect (or is that VPN over direct connect too?)
gateway vpce on edge of vpc, interface vpce is in the vpc with an address for that vpc. DNS gets updated.
private link via vpce
endpoint services. This makes sense but what would EC2 endpoint service mean?
Ah. My vpce gives an address in my subnet. That's cool. What about on the vendor side? Do they allow traffic from load balancer?
WAF vs WAF Classic
Flow logs. Like Netflow summaries.
- IAM role to allow post to cloudwatch
What was the difference with SG and ACL for flow log?
- Ah, I bet the source/destination was reversed. Inferring outbound ACL blocked it. 
Limitations: Traffic not captured by flow log
. AWS DNS server
. Windows license activation
. DHCP
. traffic to the reserved IP address for the default VPC router.

8 ELB
vpc ingress routing - security solutions from marketplace 
- oh is this what we use to send lb traffic to the palo?
- we have gwlb. utlizes ingress routing
gw lbe - gwlb has its own routing table <- check again on this
igw routes all traffic to the ENI (?) or the GWLB?
I've never understood why inspect and egress have IGW. 
Everything comes through ingress to the GWLB in inspection, right?
create a routing table for the Internet Gateway and attach a rule to direct all traffic to the EC2 instance ENI
Maybe that's not what we do. Routed to transit gateway. 
default route to vpc-033010a222d774cf2 (inspection)
ok but how does it get from the tgw to the gwlb? 
I also don't fully understand the routing (why so many tables). 
Are there any public addresses in inspect or egress? 
I'm losing focus but come back to this. I do need to understand it. 
Ok so how does tgw get to gwlb? 
all incoming traffic goes to GWLB. GWLB target group is the palos
- a-ha a vpce. But his is the tgwa routing table. Because all traffic. 
vpce - interface endpoints and gateway endpoints (main). GatewayLoadBalancer. 
I think I understand vpce when it comes to accessing s3 - puts it in the vpce instead of public. 
OK good. 

9 Route 53 (skip demos)
SLA is 100%
health checks for redirection
weighted, latency-based, failover, geolocation

10 Cloud front

11. Hybrid Cloud.
DR
software VPN
hardware VPN
static hardware VPN (static routes rather than BGP)
- customer gateway - like on-prem router
- virtual gateway 1:1 VPC (like IGW (?))
- he seems to be using software router for client vpn (e.g. openvpn) and hardware for site-to-site.
- I certainly didn't create a cgw or vgw for openvpn
- I need more experience with routing, not just static. Propogation.
must use a specific address for Inside Cidr for tunnelX 169.254.6.0/30 per vgw. 
highest weight wins. directly connected 32768. more important than AS hops.
as for private connect 64512 65534

Come back to 90-96 if I have time.

12. Direct connect comes up a lot. docs.
There are no charges for transfer in via Direct Connect. Out will vary. 
VGW is needed to make it work. With VIF connection. Peer IP addresses for BGP. 
Public VIF to connect to public services zone e.g. s3 and dynamoDB (reduces transfer costs). Not really getting this. 
Hosted connection with a partner not directly to AWS. One vlan but more choice with speed. 

13. Disaster recovery. AWS DR white paper.
RPO Recovery Point Objective
RTO Recovery Time Objective
test DR plans regularly
route53 failover routing - might be useful to look into
pilot light
warm standy
- RTO is lower.
active/active
- multi-site aka full

14. Billing and costs
Direct connect: 0.02-0.15 transfer out. 
EC2 out 
no charge for data in.
load balancer 2.25c/hr varies on AZ too. 
cloud front in 0 out 0.02-0.25
across AZ per GB charge 0.01 in too
redshift in 0 with AZ
EC2 within AZ is 0 (private)

VPC pricing
NAT gateway same region no charge
There are charges for data transfer across AZs - key exam item
lots of sneaky ways to charge you
vpce to access s3 across private network might save a bit

Typically no charge to bring data in.


---
For me:
site to site VPN via FortiGate 
- can i get a second internet connection with the firewall wan interface on it? IP Passhrough. 
- I'm thinking of buying support for Fortinet.
VPCe to access S3
for private link, would the service appear for everyone? How else would it know?
AWS config might be useful if it is across accounts. 




